---
title: Network isolation
description: How to configure network isolation for MCP servers in ToolHive.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';

Most MCP servers require network access to function properlyâ€”for example, to
access APIs, download data, or communicate with other services. However,
malicious or misconfigured servers can also exfiltrate sensitive data or
download unwanted content.

When you install an MCP server in ToolHive, you can optionally enable _network
isolation_. This feature restricts the MCP server's network access to only the
resources you specify.

:::note

Network isolation currently supports HTTP and HTTPS connections only. Other
protocols are not supported.

:::

## Enabling network isolation

Currently, network isolation is available for MCP servers installed from the
ToolHive registry.

During the MCP server installation, select the **Network isolation** tab in the
configuration form. Click the toggle to enable it.

When you enable network isolation, any safe default configuration defined in the
registry is pre-loaded in the form. You can accept these defaults or customize
the settings to specify which hosts and ports the MCP server is allowed to
access:

- **Allowed hosts**:\
  A list of hostnames or IP addresses that the MCP server is allowed to access.
  This can include APIs, data sources, or other services that the MCP server
  needs to function properly.

  :::tip

  To allow access to all subdomains under a specific domain, add a leading
  period (`.`) in front of the hostname. For example, to allow access to all
  subdomains of `github.com`, enter `.github.com` in the allowed hosts list.

  :::

- **Allowed ports**:\
  A list of ports that the MCP server is allowed to use for outgoing
  connections. This can help prevent the MCP server from accessing unauthorized
  services or resources. For example, port 443 is the default port for HTTPS
  connections.

:::important

If you do not specify any allowed hosts or ports, the MCP server will not be
able to access any external resources, including the internet. This can be
useful for MCP servers that do not require network access or for testing
purposes.

:::

## Example configuration

The configuration pictured below allows the MCP server to access
`api.github.com` and all subdomains of `githubusercontent.com` on port 443
(HTTPS):

<ThemedImage
  alt='Network isolation configuration showing allowed hosts and ports'
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/img/toolhive/network-isolation-light.webp'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/img/toolhive/network-isolation-dark.webp'),
  }}
  title='Network isolation configuration showing allowed hosts and ports'
></ThemedImage>
<br />

## Related information

- [Run MCP servers](./run-mcp-servers.md)
